box containing sand. Any bullet that enters the detector will be
stopped and accumulated. When we wish, we can empty the box
and count the number of bullets that have been caught. The detector
can be moved back and forth (in what we will call the x-direction).
With this apparatus, we can ﬁnd out experimentally the answer to
the question: “What is the probability that a bullet which passes
through the holes in the wall will arrive at the backstop at the dis-
tance x from the center?” First, you should realize that we should
talk about probability, because we cannot say deﬁnitely where any
particular bullet will go. A bullet which happens to hit one of the
holes may bounce off the edges of the hole, and may end up any-
where at all. By “probability” we mean the chance that the bullet
will arrive at the detector, which we can measure by counting the
number which arrive at the detector in a certain time and then tak-
ing the ratio of this number to the total number that hit the back-
stop during that time. Or, if we assume that the gun always shoots
at the same rate during the measurements, the probability we want
is just proportional to the number that reach the detector in some
standard time interval.
For our present purposes we would like to imagine a somewhat
idealized experiment in which the bullets are not real bullets, but
118
Six Easy Pieces
Figure 6-1
Interference experiment with bullets. 
